okay how do i stop being this kind of
person what's up a vote
yeah hold on let me think about this so
how do i stop being this kind of person
whenever i have something coming up
later in the day i can't relax until it
happens
even if it's just meeting up with a
friend i hate how i
am uh i have an appointment at 4 p.m so
i can't do anything
all day type of person let me just think
about how to answer this for a second
so if you're the kind of person who has
an appointment at 4pm
and can't do anything all day
the challenge there or the weakness
there is that
for your mind to be relieved the event
has to be over
right you can't detach from the event
prior to it occurring so i want you all
to like just think about this for a
second
so in the mind of this person who has an
appointment at 4pm and can't do anything
all day
they wake up in the morning and then
their mind is like squeezed by that
thought
i have to do something at four i have to
do something at four i have to do
something at four
and then like what these people have
learned is that
after the four pm appointment then you
don't have anything at four and then the
mind relaxes
and so in order for your mind to have
space for other things it can't be
occupied by one thing because
your mind can only have one thought in
it at a time okay
so like if your mind is like fully
occupied by your appointment at 4 pm
and you don't have time for anything
else like you can't think about anything
else
then the solution and is to actually
like train yourself to kind of let go
of that thought right and so then the
question becomes okay well how do i do
that
so we just taught you all anthracica so
that's actually like a good way to like
because if you think about what rataka
is dratika is
training your mind to point
where you tell it to so if i train my
mind to concentrate on
like this if i'm looking at this and
then like my mind because if you think
about the process of meditation
i'm going to tell my mind i'm going to
sit here and then the mind is like but
let's go over here let's go over here
but i train my mind and i tell it no no
no we're going to sit here we're going
to sit here we're going to sit here
we're going to sit here
so one thing that you can do is
literally train your mind how to focus
which we kind of just did
the other thing that oftentimes happens
when there is like a 4pm thing that you
can't think about
it has to do with the consequences of
that thing
okay so what you need to let you're
trying to not
think about your 4pm appointment whereas
what you really need to let go of and
it's hard to let go because
that's not actually what you're holding
on to you're not thinking about the
appointment you're thinking about the
consequences of the appointment
right so what i would do is sit down and
think to yourself for a second about
like
why is thinking about this so important
to me
what is it about this that makes me not
be able to think about other things
and then what you'll inevitably find is
because the consequence of that
appointment
is so important so like
it may be like a really important
appointment
and and it's kind of interesting because
what you're doing is you're relying on
your circumstances to dictate where your
mind
goes which kind of needs to be you can
train it to do
otherwise but i i don't have a
yeah so you can train your mind i think
the second thing to think a little bit
about
is um you know the consequences of the
thing which is actually what you're
attached to
but i i feel like there's a better
answer somewhere there that i'm not
really
able to suss out right now